Now blockchains have become extremely popular, but what are they?
And how do they work? And what problems they solve?
Well, blockchain is simply a shared database that contains a list of
transactions and these transactions
are made between the users who become part of this network.
Transaction can be something as simple as sending money.
This was actually a popular use cases of
the blockchain versus established by the cryptocurrency Bitcoin.
Now the idea for Bitcoin came from an unknown developer
who goes by the name Satoshi Nakamoto back in 2009,
and the idea was to create a new type of currency that is open to
anyone and can establish the trust needed to facilitate transactions.
Bitcoin may have been the first blockchain but there have been many more sense,
and use cases are popping up in many industries besides finance.
So the way that this data is created,
organized, and managed on a blockchain helps to do some pretty cool things.
For one, blockchain data is shared by all users on this network.
It's not kept in the hands of any central authority.
Secondly, it's extremely difficult to change
any data once it has been put onto a blockchain.
Putting these two things together,
you end up with a shared perminant history of
transactions that we can trust to be accurate and up-to-date.
So, how does this all work? Let's say I'm trying to send you 10 Eudacity as coins.
To send these coins, we'll each need
a digital wallet which you can picture as a normal wallet for now.
I'll send my Eudacity coins from my wallet to yours and this we'll call a transaction.
The transaction is a record of information like who sent it,
who were sent to and how much was sent.
Next, the transaction is sent out to a network of users,
and the goal of this network is to take
our transactions and group it with other transactions into a block.
Once enough transactions are collected,
the block is full and ready to be permanently added to the blockchain.
To do this, before block is assigned a unique value what's known as a hash.
A hash is unique fingerprint of
inflammation that allows us to identify the block in the future.
This hash is really important because it uniquely
identifies exactly which data was in the block.
If I were to change something about our transaction, like to say,
I send you five Eudacity coins instead,
it will change the hash of the block making it invalid.
The block is given a hash value as
well as the hash of the block that was created before it,
and this links the two blocks together and over time,
this continues to build out a longer and longer chain of blocks.
As time goes on, this blockchain creates
an unchangeable historical record of
all transactions that have ever happened on the network.
This idea has allowed us to create
some really exciting new applications in many different industries.
Hopefully, this gives you a basic idea of what's going on on the blockchain.
We'll be discussing all this and more throughout the program.
So check out the next video for more information on the products you'll
complete on your way to creating your very own blockchain application.